I've been busy recently but have a bunch of topics that I want to write about so keep on checking.  Thanks for reading!
Answer: Be elected for a first term, the second term will follow.  It turns out it's pretty likely that a president will be elected to a second term. If we examine all previous Presidential Elections, we will see 8 presidents who failed to get reelected:             President       Result           Benjamin Harrison   Failed to get reelected in 1892       George H. W. Bush   Failed to get reelected in 1992       Herbert Hoover   Failed to get reelected in 1932       Jimmy Carter   Failed to get reelected in 1980       John Quincy Adams   Failed to get reelected in 1828       Theodore Roosevelt   Failed to get reelected in 1912       William Henry Harrison   Failed to get elected in 1836       William Howard Taft   Failed to get reelected in 1912         On the other hand, if we look at all presidents with 2 or more terms, we only see a few Presidents who have failed to get elected. Some of these, like Andrew Jackson, failed to get elected initially but were then able to get 2 terms in office. Grover Cleveland had non consecutive terms in office. In total, there were 16 presidents who had a second term.          President   Result           Abraham Lincoln          Andrew Jackson   Failed to get elected in 1824, was elected in 1828 and 1832       Bill Clinton          Dwight D. Eisenhower          Franklin D. Roosevelt          George W. Bush          George Washington          Grover Cleveland   Failed to get reelected in 1888 (was pres in 1884 and 1892)       James Madison          James Monroe   Failed to get elected in 1808, was elected in 1816 and 1820       Richard Nixon   Failed to get elected in 1960       Ronald Reagan          Thomas Jefferson   Failed to get elected in 1796       Ulysses S. Grant          William McKinley          Woodrow Wilson            Franklin Delano Roosevelt ran for, and won, a 3rd term in 1940 using the idea that one should "not change horses in midstream." He did not need to do that since it seems people stick with what they are comfortable with.    Note: If I made a mistake anywhere let me know so I can correct it. The data was retrieved from Wikipedia.
The Apache enabled modules are found in  "/etc/apache2/mods-enabled"  as a set of .load and .conf files. If the modules you want are in the  /etc/apache2/mods-available  folder but not in  "/etc/apache2/mods-enabled"  folder, just copy the .load and .conf files over (note that the .conf file may not exist).    If there is no file in the mods-availble folder, you will need to create a new .load file in the mods-available folder to point to a module in  "/usr/lib/apache2/modules" . To do this, create a .load file containing the line  "LoadModule xxx /usr/lib/apache2/modules/yyy.so"  where xxx is the name of the module and yyy is the file name. After creating this file, you can just copy it over to the mods-enabled folder and restart apache using  "sudo /etc/init.d/apache2 restart" .
I may be a bit late to the party but I was finally able to see the power of  Twitter  this afternoon.    I kept on getting an "Authentication failed" message when trying to log in to AIM. A few years ago I would not know what to do except ask my friends if they were having any trouble. Right now, I went to searched for "AIM" on Twitter and discovered that other people were having the same problem. Turns out it was a systematic problem and I wasn't the only one affected. Being able to know more about this problem is a great benefit. There has been a lot of talk of the power of real time search and real time news but this was my first real glimpse into the power of Twitter.    My first action wasn't to search for "AIM log in problem" on Google but to search for "AIM" on Twitter. It's amazing to me that Twitter was able to replace a certain type of search. The majority of my searches will still be done on Google but it seems that for anything with a pulse - Twitter search is the way to go.    Twitter's character limit is a great way to take advantage of the network effect. Having a low character limit encourages a lot more users to tweet thereby making Twitter feel alive and giving everyone else more information.    There have been numerous ideas of Twitter being used for market research and to get an early customer response - I can imagine that happening now and it's mind blowing.
People often blame bad luck for their failures. This absolves them of responsibility and allows them to stop trying. What they should have done is admitted their failure, learned from the experience, and prepared themselves for the next opportunity. Exposing yourself to opportunities is the best way to overcome bad luck. Authors are a great example of this:  J K Rowling  and  John Grisham  had their novels rejected numerous times before they succeeded. Yet soon after publishing they became blockbusters. How many authors gave up when trying to have their work published? Imagine if they had the determination that J K Rowling and John Grisham had.  As  Seneca the Younger , a Roman philosopher, said, "Luck is what happens when preparation meets opportunity." In order to increase your luck you need to increase your exposure to different opportunities. In addition, you need to realize an opportunity when it presents itself. A way to view this is through the simple roll of a die. Although a die only has a 1 in 6 chance of rolling a 1 when rolled once, it has a greater chance of landing on a 1 when rolled multiple times. Most people give up after a few rolls but in order to succeed you need to keep on playing the game until you get a successful roll.  The fact that you are reading this shows that you are luckier than the majority of the world's population. You have access to the internet and the desire to improve your luck. You can leverage that to contact leaders in your field or people who can help you succeed. You may get no responses from some but you will get encouraging responses from others. You just need to be open and increase your opportunities.