This post is a response to  Robert Cringely's PBS Post . He's giving 2 reasons for the acquisition and I wanted to add to two of his points.          The short term reason is to force Intel to give Apple price cuts for fear that Apple will make their own chips: I do not think that Intel needs to worry about Apple manufacturing their own PC chips as Apple already went through that phase and AMD already provides the necessary pressure on Intel to lower their prices.        In the future, software and OSes will not be tied down to a specific chip so Apple will start manufacturing their own processors to increase their margins: I think the author is on to something regarding the future of processors but I do not think the PC market will change that drastically. Apple will probably start making their own chips for the iPhone and their new gadgets but I doubt they will do the same for the PC market.      Edit: Just found out that Apple already makes a server (Thanks Brian). I have to start doing some research from now on.
It's about time video games are considered an art. They are creative endeavors that take as much and as long to make as some movies. There is also a huge distinction between the great and the poor games. Games these days can be considered movies and they should be treated in the same way.  Maybe then will video games no longer be the black sheep of the media and entertainment business. It's ridiculous that some guy throwing feces at a canvas is considered higher than the developers of video games.  Video games are no longer the simple things of 20 years past but have evolved into their own worlds and stories and should be given the credit they deserve.  It's a shame people are blaming video games for the violence instead of their own parenting ability. And if they actually cared about how their kids were being raised maybe they should stop the filth on TV from being shown and replace the TV babysitter with themselves.  No one can argue that TV has been getting more and more sexual and violent yet the finger is always pointed at video games - it's time this stops.
I'm not sure why no one is pointing this out but it seems that as soon as EA acquires T2, the T2 folks would just leave to create a new studio. They seem independent and I doubt that they'd want to work for EA. And although EA would get the rights to all of the T2 games and may try to develop the series, they might not have the imagination or the guys to do it. In addition, I don't know whether EA would even want to develop such products as GTA and Bully given the violence and public relations ordeal that T2 has been going through the past few years.  What EA does want is probably the T2 sports games, then they'll have a pretty strong hold on the sports games' market.  So as long as EA does not want the T2 human capital it seems like it makes sense - but given the negative response of T2 to the offer, I doubt EA will be able to retain the developers and artists.
A little unexpected but I think this was the right decision for Microsoft for a couple of reasons:  1. Jerry Yang was doing everything in his power to prevent MS from acquiring Yahoo - what type of message does that send and how must the employees of Yahoo feel if their CEO is acting this way. 2. In order to compete with Google, the merger must have gotten done quickly and smoothly, this would not have been the case in the case of a hostile takeover. 3. There have been rumors that many of Yahoo's employees were just waiting for the merger to happen in order to cash in on their new accelerated vesting and compensation packages, immediately leaving Yahoo there after. 4. A lot of the Yahoo employees and MSFT employees and investors did not want the merger to go through. From what I know the largest group that wanted the merger to go through were the Yahoo investors, albeit at a higher price. 5. Yahoo will now have to deal with a variety of problems: shareholder lawsuits, talk of Jerry's management ability, sudden price drop. All these may in fact lead to another Microsoft offer in maybe a few months at a much lower price - in which case it will probably be accepted.  The only downside that just immediately to my mind is that MS and Yahoo are in deep water and do need to do something in order to compete with Google - but I do not think the merger would have necessarily helped them, given the merging difficulties and the corporate culture clash.
I find it absurd that the average prisoner costs $25,000 a year to keep in prison ($75,000 for death row) and yet we still have homelessness in the United States. Each one of the homeless may start committing some type of crime in order to get into prison and at least not worry about where their next meal comes from yet they are staying on the streets as free men. Isn't there something we can do to encourage good behavior instead of encouraging bad behavior?  Furthermore, a large percentage of the homeless are veterans and should not be ignored.
Recently I've discovered a few words where I know the definition and spelling but I don't know the pronunciation. The problem is that I think I know how to pronounce them so when I use them for the first time in conversation, or hear someone using them, some confusion arises (as well as making me look like a fool).  I am not sure if this is isolated to me or society as a whole. The world does seem to be getting more and more open so maybe this is a result of that - the spoken dictionary is getting smaller and smaller so many of the words that were commonly used in conversations decades ago are no longer being used.  In any case I think we should all try to identify such words and try to use commonly written words in conversation, we may be surprised by how wrong we are.  For me, the word I didn't know how to pronounce was "albeit." I was pronouncing it as all-bite when it turns out that it is pronounced all-be-it.
Since when did printers stop coming with the cables? Does this have anything to do with printers being available in USB form and the manufacturers suddenly assuming that everyone already has USB cables? Or is it some agreement that they have with merchants that requires me to pay $20 for a 6' cable. Some quick price look ups do show that the standard printer cables cost around the same as USB cables so if they were able to afford to bundle printer cables before USB, they should be able to bundle USB cables now.  Does anyone else find this ridiculous?  Edit: My father tells me that they never came with cables and that I am misinformed. He's probably right since I wouldn't trust my childish memory with regard to such things. In any case, printers should come with cables.
Although it's wonderful to think that we will be able to colonize other worlds when we grow too numerous or run out of resources, it may not happen. It seems that given the level of current weapons and state of the world we will more likely try to conquer each other than try to conquer space.  In order to go into space we would need to have an advanced level of technology which could only be created through innovation. I am just worried that technological advances tend to be used as weapons first, and as humanity benefiting objects second. This may have been fine with the technology of old but we are approaching the level where a weapon can wipe us out. The non warlike use may not come to fruition if there will be no one left to develop it.  I just hope we realize that the next global war may be the last war we fight and that we need to control our competitive spirit. A quote that comes to mind is Albert Einstein: "I know not with what weapons World War Three will be fought, but World War Four will be fought with sticks and stones." I'd just like to add that I'm not so sure there will even be a World War Four.
I've recently been reading some articles opposing the use of brainteasers during interviews on the grounds that they are unfair and some people have difficulty thinking on the spot. You can make the same argument for any part of the interview process and I feel that brainteasers may even attract intelligent employees.    I can come up with a few good reasons to use brainteasers during an interview. One, you are able to determine how well the interviewee thinks as well as their problem solving ability. In addition, if the interviewee does end up getting a job offer, he or she may be more likely to accept it since it was a challenging interview and getting the job feels like an accomplishment - feels better when you have to earn something than when it falls into your lap. The fact that you even asked a brain teaser shows intelligence on your part and you want to attract people who want to work with other smart people, instead of being the big fish in a small pond.    Ideally, you would want to find some brainteasers that have multiple ways of solution so you are able to identify how each of the interviewees thinks but I think a variety of brain teasers can achieve the same effect. Below are few good questions/brainteasers I enjoy.     	 What was the last book you've read? What's your favorite book? (Not a brainteaser but I believe a good question nonetheless)  	 You have a lighter and 2 ropes that are non-uniform. It takes a rope 1 hour to burn from one end to the other end. How do you measure 45 minutes?  	 You have 3 pairs of (x,y) points that determine a triangle. How can you determine if this triangle contains the origin? (from Project Euler)  	 Which is larger, 48736^95934 or 44390^96771? (Also from Project Euler)  	 How do you split a cake of nonuniform size between 2 people? Can you expand this to any number of people?      Feel free to comment or email me if you are unsure how to solve a particular problem.
So I am porting this blog over from wordpress.com to my own local hosting. Please bear with me and I'll hopefully have more things to read soon.    Edit: I did a rough job changing the dates in the database so the posts should all have the actual post date now.
A nice change of scenery for the long weekend. It's amazing how quiet the nights are when you are not in the city.
A common idiom is "Don't judge a book by its cover" but I think that in this modern age this needs to rehashed into "Don't judge words by their author."    How often do we look at the author before we read an article or blog post? And how does this impact the way we absorb it? Studies have been done[1] to show that the same words coming from two different people, one a professor and one an average Joe, are interpreted differently: the professor is trusted while the average Joe is not. This can be expanded to any source of information, anything from a book to a YouTube video. In the past, these sources of information were concentrated - not everyone could write a book, but now anyone can start a blog to spread their thoughts and opinions.    In such a world, it's becoming increasingly important to come up with our own opinions and facts and applying a "trusted" filter may just be the shortcut we developed to not actually have to think about what we read. We need to be aware that knowing who the author is exposes the author's biases but it also creates biases in the reader.    Try reading something before looking at who wrote it and see if changes how you read. If you can control yourself, don't even look for the author after reading the piece.    [1] I'll try to look these up and update the post.
I ran into this problem a while back and wanted to share it. It was a bit unintuitive but documentd so I guess I shouldn't be surprised by the results. Hopefully this will help someone else avoid this pitfall.    It looks as if declaring a variable with the "my" statement but then guarded with an "if" statement causes the scope of the variable to be global - note that the "use strict 'vars';" pragma does not give an error in this case.   {% highlight perl %} #!/usr/bin/perl -w use strict  'vars';  sub foo{     my $val = 0 if (0);     $val = 1 unless defined($val);     print "Val: $val\n";     $val = 2; }  foo(); foo();{% endhighlight %}   The output of this call gives:  Val: 1  Val: 2     Although the expected result would seem to be:  Val: 1  Val: 1     Using Google, I found the following nugget from perlsyn:    NOTE: The behaviour of a my statement modified with a statement modifier conditional or loop construct (e.g. my $x if ... ) is undefined. The value of the my variable may be undef, any previously assigned value, or possibly anything else. Don't rely on it. Future versions of perl might do something different from the version of perl you try it out on. Here be dragons.  http://perldoc.perl.org/perlsyn.html#Statement-Modifiers
With so many people joining social networks like Facebook, MySpace, and LinkedIn, it's becoming harder and harder to protect your personal information. If one of your friends happens to add a host of different facebook apps, those apps will have access to his friends' (your) information. There is nothing you can do to stop this unless you either remove all your friends or create very limited profiles.    In addition, people have come to expect to be able to add you as a friend after they've met you and rejecting them may be construed as anti-social. Imagine a recruiter not being able to look at your information on LinkedIn or a potential date not being able to look at your interests or photos on facebook - you will be missing out on opportunities.    How is one supposed to play this game where you want your information both hidden and shared? My solution is to embrace this lack of privacy: integrate yourself into as many social networks as you can, start a blog, post on various forums, publish your photos on Flickr, and so forth. By being famous (if only on the internet) you will eliminate a lot of the adverse effects of having your information public. You will have enough of a community to support you in case anything goes wrong and you can stop worrying about your information being shared.    How often does Bill Gates worry about his identity being stolen?
After my previous post on the lack of privacy, I feel obligated to give some advice regarding internet passwords in order to maintain the privacy that we do have.          Have at least 3 different passwords:           	 E-mail Account          This account controls all your other accounts so protect it as much as you can. All other accounts can be accessed or reset if someone has access to your email.     	 Bank/Financial Accounts          These control your money so use a different password for these than for the rest of your accounts. In addition, you may want to keep your credit card account passwords separate from your bank accounts.     	 "Fun" Account          These may not be vital to your survival (unless you are a facebook addict) so a password compromise here may not affect you too much. In addition, these sites may not store your password as securely as the bank accounts so you don't want this password being the same as the other accounts.            A good way to generate passwords is to contain some sort of "base" and add some prefixes or suffixes to it in order to come up with the password for the various sites. For example, I can have my base password be "orange". For financial sites my password will be "orangeFIN22", for my email it will be "orangeE33", etc. Then you don't have to remember an entirely different set of passwords yet they are distinct enough to avoid compromising all your accounts with a stolen password.              Don't trust web sites that are able to send you your password over email       If a website is able to tell you what your password is, it means it is storing it in the database as either the password itself or through a transformation that is reversible (a becomes b, b becomes c, ..). This means that the site knows what your password is and can be easily accessed by employees of the site or anyone that has access to the database.        The proper way to handle user passwords is to hash it (one way map) immediately to some obfuscated characters and store those in the database along with an additional field that ensures each row is hashed differently. Then when a user logs in, the site will do this one way map and compare the result against the value in the database; omly if they match is the user logged in.
It may be my memory but it seems that TV commericals have been getting longer and longer as compared to a decade ago. It would be very interesting to see a plot of the length of the average commercial break over the past few decades - I think we'll see that the length of the average commercial break has drastically increased.    In addition, it seems as if there are no commerical breaks between consecutive TV shows anymore. Clearly this is a way to keep us from turning off the TV and doing something productive with our lives.    Does anyone have any thoughts?
It seems that there is a recent emphasis on "character" in the election. Unfortunately, character can be faked with some acting and campaign management. To understand how the candidates will perform in office we need to look at their past accomplishments and failures. Public records show the  vote history  for the candidates and all it takes is a little bit of research to see how the candidates have voted.    But people aren't interested in looking at data; they are more interested in how much candidates spend on their haircut or who looks more "confident." I imagine that before radio or television existed and the only news source was the newspaper, candidates would have stood on their issues alone. The vast majority of the population would not have seen the candidates in person and would have to have focused on the issues each candidate presented. Maybe it's time we go back to those days with a ballot only containing issues.    In addition, why not throw in an intelligence test geared towards the issues and use the score to weigh the vote. If companies can use intelligence in their hiring decisions, why can't the government use it in the voting process? The impact of a wrong decision is much greater.
I've recently been thinking about whether the US can move to a EU like model with each state having control over it's own policies but sharing a  single market  and monetary union. In addition, competition is well regulated and a shared budget exists. In addition, it looks as if this shared budget is a little over 1% of the  Gross National Income  of the individual countries (1) - imagine a Federal tax rate of 1%.    Clearly, the states would then have to handle more of the lower level administration but that may be for the best. Each state is different and must be governed differently. States with a large agricultural focus should have different policies than states with a large technology focus. States with a highly religious population should have different policies than the more atheist states. Under such a system, some states may end up doing better than others in the short term but if it becomes obvious that certain policies work, the other states would have adapt in order to compete, thus improving the US as a whole.    I believe that such a system plays on the strengths of the federal government as well as the strengths of local governments. It will still be easy to travel from state to state, use the same currency, and not deal with trade barriers but each state will have it's own social and cultural policies that reflect its population.    It just seems that the federal government cannot pass laws that will be beneficial to all states at once and so there is some form of a standstill. Maybe this focus on a more state-centered model is the approach to take.    In the future, I would like to take a look at the economic growth of the individual countries before the creation of the EU as well as after the creation of the EU adjusted for the overall growth of the world markets. I have a feeling it would show that the creation of the EU encouraged the growth of the individual markets.    Notes: (1)  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/European_Union#Budget
I stumbled unto an  article  written in 1968 that tries to predict what the world of 2008 will be like. Usually, these types of predictions are completely off and tend to predict a future far more advanced than what it actually becomes.           As expected, the article had it's exaggerations (automatic cars driving at 250 miles per hour, inter-continental rockets, average work day of 4 hours ) but what struck me the most is how accurate the predictions about computers are:    The single most important item in 2008 households is the computer. These electronic brains govern everything from meal preparation and waking up the household to assembling shopping lists and keeping track of the bank balance. Sensors in kitchen appliances, climatizing units, communicators, power supply and other household utilities warn the computer when the item is likely to fail. A repairman will show up even before any obvious breakdown occurs.  Computers also handle travel reservations, relay telephone messages, keep track of birthdays and anniversaries, compute taxes and even figure the monthly bills for electricity, water, telephone and other utilities. Not every family has its private computer. Many families reserve time on a city or regional computer to serve their needs. The machine tallies up its own services and submits a bill, just as it does with other utilities.  Money has all but disappeared. Employers deposit salary checks directly into their employees’ accounts. Credit cards are used for paying all bills. Each time you buy something, the card’s number is fed into the store’s computer station. A master computer then deducts the charge from your bank balance.  Computers not only keep track of money, they make spending it easier. TV-telephone shopping is common. To shop, you simply press the numbered code of a giant shopping center. You press another combination to zero in on the department and the merchandise in which you are interested. When you see what you want, you press a number that signifies “buy,” and the household computer takes over, places the order, notifies the store of the home address and subtracts the purchase price from your bank balance. Much of the family shopping is done this way. Instead of being jostled by crowds, shoppers electronically browse through the merchandise of any number of stores.    Compared to the rest of the predictions, this is amazingly close to what we currently have. There is still some emphasis on the server and treating computers as a utility that is not currently present but with the rise of Google Docs and other online tools, that is not such a distant notion.    This begs the question, why are the predictions so close when it comes to computers but so off when it comes to other technologies? More importantly, why does  Moore's Law  apply to transistors but not to larger technologies? I have a few ideas:     	 Infrastructure costs - it's cheaper to replace modern day computers than modern day cars. Thus, innovation can happen at a faster pace as people replace their computers. Also, computers tend to work in a much more solitary environment than cars do; being able to drive a car 300 miles per hour is useless when the roads can't take it and the laws prevent it.  	 Experimentation - it's easier for the average person to hack around on a computer than it is to hack around on a car. Thus, a lot more people are working on ideas and due to sheer numbers, more ideas are bound to stick.  	 Brand new technologies breed creativity - When computers were invented, no one knew what they were capable of and everyone had ideas as to how they could be used. Many people pursued their ideas and were able to create and improve on various technologies. Also, many teenagers and students were involved in embracing this new technology - and they didn't know what was impossible so they reached for the stars.Now, everyone is so used to what cars are that people don't even imagine what cars could be capable of. We may be approaching this same plateau with computers.      I'll try to update these when I think of any more.
I found an  op-ed  in the NY Times that claimed that the best way to increase voter turnout was by having election day fall on a weekend. They provide a few examples but nothing too detailed. I tried pulling in some data and seeing if I could come to the same conclusion. I used two data sets:  voter turn out by country  and  election dates by country .    Combining this data into one table, and ignoring the missing data:          Country   Election Type   Date   Day of week   Weekend   Turnout           Czech Republic   Presidential Final   Fri 2/15/08   6   No   85%       South Korea   Parliamentary      Wed 4/9/08   4   No   75%       Canada   Parliamentary      Tue 10/14/08   3   No   76%       Czech Republic   Parliamentary      Fri 10/17/08   6   No   85%       United States   Presidential      Tue 11/4/08   3   No   54%       Romania   Parliamentary      Fri 11/28/08   6   No   81%       Russia   Presidential      Sun 3/2/08   1   Yes   61%       Malta   Parliamentary      Sat 3/8/08   7   Yes   94%       Spain   Parliamentary      Sun 3/9/08   1   Yes   73%       Italy   Parliamentary      Sun 4/13/08   1   Yes   90%       Iceland   Presidential (Cancelled)      Sat 6/28/08   7   Yes   89%       Austria   Parliamentary      Sun 9/28/08   1   Yes   92%       New Zealand   Parliamentary      Sat 11/8/08   7   Yes   88%         It does seem as if they are on to something - the average turnout for weekday election days was 76% while the average turnout for weekend election days was 84%. This wasn't a very rigorous examination and I am sure there are many more issues that factor in to the voting process but it does make intuitive sense.